README.md, before:

# Image captioning in Cultural Heritage domain
Project work for Computer Vision exam. Evaluation of image captioning and visual question answering techniques on cultural heritage datasets 

[//]: # (and the impact of an augmentation approach based on diffusion models)

## Project Structure

```
  cultural-heritage-image2text/
  │
  ├── train.py - main script to start training
  ├── test.py - evaluation of trained model
  │
  ├── notebooks/ - collection of notebooks for exploration and demonstration of features
  │   ├── image-captioning.ipynb
  │   └── ...
  │
  ├── data_loader/ - anything about data loading goes here
  │   └── artpedia.py contains Artpedia Dataset and DataModule
  │
  ├── data/ - default directory for storing input data
  │
  ├── model/ - models and metrics
  │   ├── model.py - LightningModule wrapper for image captioning
  │   └── metric.py - custom metrics for causal language modeling
  │
  ├── runs/
  │   ├── cultural-heritage/ - trained models are saved here
  │   └── wandb/ - local logdir for wandb and logging output
  │
  └── utils/
      ├── utils.py - small utility functions for training
      └── download.py - utility to download images from Artpedia json metadata
 ```

## Usage

### Train

```bash
python train.py fit --config configs/config.yaml
```

### Validation

```bash
python train.py validate --config configs/config.yaml --ckpt_path path/to/ckpt.ckpt
```



## Results

### Artpedia 
#### zero-shot
| Model                                                              | BLEU-1 | BLEU-2 | BLEU-3 | BLEU-4 | METEOR | ROUGE-L | CIDEr | SPICE | BERTScore |
|--------------------------------------------------------------------|--------|--------|--------|--------|--------|---------|-------|-------|-----------|
| [GIT-base](https://huggingface.co/docs/transformers/model_doc/git) | 0.11   | 0      | 0      | 0      |        | 0.1     |       | 0     | 0.52      |
| [GIT-base](https://huggingface.co/docs/transformers/model_doc/git) | 0.07   | 0      | 0      | 0      |        | 0.15    |       | 0     | 0.59      |
| [OFA](https://github.com/OFA-Sys/OFA)                              |
| [BLIP](https://huggingface.co/docs/transformers/model_doc/blip)    |

#### finetuning
Models have been finetuned for 10 epochs on training dataset

| Model                                                           | BLEU-1 | BLEU-2 | BLEU-3 | BLEU-4 | METEOR | ROUGE-L | CIDEr | SPICE | BERTScore |
|-----------------------------------------------------------------|--------|--------|--------|--------|--------|---------|-------|-------|-----------|
| [GIT](https://huggingface.co/docs/transformers/model_doc/git)   | 0.03   | 0      | 0      | 0      |        | 0.16    |       | 0     | 0.62      |
| [OFA](https://github.com/OFA-Sys/OFA)                           |
| [BLIP](https://huggingface.co/docs/transformers/model_doc/blip) |


## TODOs
- [ ] Train on Artpedia
- [ ] Add BLEU, METEOR, ROUGE-L, CIDEr, SPICE
- [ ] Support OFA (Tiny-Medium-Base)
- [ ] Evaluate on other art datasets

## References
- [Artpedia](https://aimagelab.ing.unimore.it/imagelab/page.asp?IdPage=35) dataset - [paper](https://iris.unimore.it/retrieve/handle/11380/1178736/224456/paper.pdf)

Commit message:

Modified to pycocoevalcap - added configuration for augmented dataset

README.md, after:

# Image captioning in Cultural Heritage domain
Project work for Computer Vision exam. Evaluation of image captioning and visual question answering techniques on cultural heritage datasets 

[//]: # (and the impact of an augmentation approach based on diffusion models)

## Project Structure
Here is the description of the main files and folders of the project.

```
  cultural-heritage-image2text/
  │
  ├── main.py - main script for training and testing models
  │
  ├── notebooks/ - collection of notebooks for exploration and demonstration of features
  │   ├── image-captioning.ipynb: Artpedia dataset exploration and example of image captioning with trained models
  │   └── ...
  │
  ├── data_loader/ - anything about data loading goes here
  │   └── artpedia.py contains Artpedia Dataset and DataModule
  │
  ├── data/ - default directory for storing input data
  │
  ├── model/ - models and metrics
  │   ├── model.py - LightningModule wrapper for image captioning
  │   └── metrics/ directory with custom metrics
  │
  ├── runs/
  │   ├── cultural-heritage/ - trained models are saved here
  │   └── wandb/ - local logdir for wandb and logging output
  │
  └── utils/
      ├── utils.py - small utility functions for training
      └── download.py - utility to download images from Artpedia json metadata
 ```

## Usage

### Train

```bash
python main.py fit --config configs/config.yaml
```

### Validation

```bash
python main.py validate --config configs/config.yaml --ckpt_path path/to/ckpt.ckpt
```



## Results

### Artpedia 
#### zero-shot
| Model                                                                        | BLEU-1 | BLEU-2 | BLEU-3 | BLEU-4 | METEOR | ROUGE-L | CIDEr | SPICE | BERTScore |
|------------------------------------------------------------------------------|--------|--------|--------|--------|--------|---------|-------|-------|-----------|
| [GIT-base](https://huggingface.co/docs/transformers/model_doc/git)           | 0.11   | 0      | 0      | 0      | 0.09   | 0.1     | 0     | 0     | 0.52      |
| [GIT-large-Textcaps](https://huggingface.co/docs/transformers/model_doc/git) | 0.07   | 0      | 0      | 0      |        | 0.15    |       | 0     | 0.59      |
| [OFA](https://github.com/OFA-Sys/OFA)                                        |        |        |        |        |        |         |       |       |           |
| [BLIP](https://huggingface.co/docs/transformers/model_doc/blip)              |        |        |        |        |        |         |       |       |           |

#### finetuning
Models have been finetuned for 10 epochs on training dataset

| Model                                                           | BLEU-1 | BLEU-2 | BLEU-3 | BLEU-4 | METEOR | ROUGE-L | CIDEr | SPICE | BERTScore |
|-----------------------------------------------------------------|--------|--------|--------|--------|--------|---------|-------|-------|-----------|
| [GIT](https://huggingface.co/docs/transformers/model_doc/git)   | 0.03   | 0      | 0      | 0      | 0.05   | 0.16    | 0     | 0     | 0.62      |
| [OFA](https://github.com/OFA-Sys/OFA)                           |        |        |        |        |        |         |       |       |           |
| [BLIP](https://huggingface.co/docs/transformers/model_doc/blip) |        |        |        |        |        |         |       |       |           |


## TODOs
- [ ] Train on Artpedia
- [ ] Add BLEU, METEOR, ROUGE-L, CIDEr, SPICE
- [ ] Support OFA (Tiny-Medium-Base)
- [ ] Evaluate on other art datasets

## References
- [Artpedia](https://aimagelab.ing.unimore.it/imagelab/page.asp?IdPage=35) dataset - [paper](https://iris.unimore.it/retrieve/handle/11380/1178736/224456/paper.pdf)
